# covid_thesis

This code and data is presented for my Honours dissertation "Modelling COVID-19 Transmission in Western Australia" for the Applied Mathematics department at UWA, 2022.

Abstract:
This thesis explores techniques for modelling the regional transmission of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 in Western Australia. We create a compartmental model where each individual in the population is assigned to one of seven possible compartments (four Susceptible compartments for each vaccination level, and an Exposed, an Infected, and a Removed compartment). We estimate the parameters for this model based on the literature, real vaccination numbers, and fitted parameters based on outbreaks seen in South Australia and Western Australia. We define an effective reproduction number based on this model, which can be used to estimate the spread of the virus under different conditions and different parameters. As we are modelling real world events, our model has been constantly adapted depending on the changing COVID-19 landscape in Western Australia over the past twelve months.

This compartmental model is implemented for 44 towns distributed across Western Australia, with a transport network characterising movement between towns. Our transport network is created from the Google Aggregated Mobility Research Dataset (GAMRD). We use the transport network to better understand how an outbreak can spread around the state of Western Australia, and which towns are more susceptible to an outbreak that begins in Perth.

We find that mining towns in the Pilbara region of Western Australia are among the towns most prone to the spread of the disease from Perth. This could be explained due to the Fly-In-Fly-Out roster in place by large mines in the Pilbara region. This highlights the importance of mining companies to implement control measures to reduce the spread of the virus and prevent it from reaching the nearby residential towns, which may be more susceptible to respiratory illnesses such as COVID-19. We also show that imposing regional borders slows the spread of the virus to regional towns, but not significantly enough to protect them in the long term. We use the model to examine the capacity of a lockdown to suppress the spread of Omicron by utilising mobility data from the early 2020 lockdown. We show that a lockdown would have been an effective method to suppress the Omicron outbreak in Western Australia. Lastly, the model shows that the Omicron outbreak could have been suppressed with a triple vaccination level of 62\% or more, but only when coupled with social restrictions. We also show that with less control measures, no level of vaccination is enough to suppress the outbreak.

Raw GAMRD data cannot be shared, but other data sources are available in this repository.
